#summary How to customize Omaha for your application or organization.

= Introduction =

As is, the open source Omaha code on this site builds "Google Update". Google Update communicates with Google's update servers, which only support Google applications. The main difference between code compiled from this site and Google Update is the Authenticode signature and version number.

In order to use Omaha for your application or organization, you must customize the code for your organization and prevent it from conflicting with Google Update on users' computers.

= Vendor-Specific Values =

The following must be customized for your organization and updater product name. This list may not be exhaustive.
 * Omaha's application ID
 * name (currently Google Update)
 * strings (where "Google" is referenced)
 * version resources that reference "Google" or "Google Update"
 * (optional) log statements where "Google Update" is used
 * filenames
 * install location (currently `Google\Update`)
 * registry location (currently `Software\Google\Update`)
 * various server URLs
 * public CUP key if you want to support ClientUpdateProtocol
 * object names (mutexes, etc.)
 * COM CLSIDs and interface IDs
 * signing certificate that gets used for official builds
 * certificate names in the code
 * MSI product IDs, upgrade codes, etc.
 * application id, names, strings, filenames, paths, locations, etc. in unit tests.

= How to Customize Omaha =

Currently, the values mentioned above are specified in a variety of files and you will need to find and modify each of the values. Ideally there would be a small number of values to change in a a small number of locations and these would be well-documented.

The Google Update team does not currently have plans to do this, though we are making gradual improvements. We would welcome such contributions from the community. Please contact us on [http://groups.google.com/group/omaha-discuss omaha-discuss] if you are interested in helping with this.

In the meantime, many of the above items are defined in the following files.
 * `*.scons` files
 * `*.rc` files
 * `*.idl` files
 * `const_addresses.h`
 * `const_goopdate.h`
 * `const_object_names.h`
 * `constants.h`
 * `signaturevalidator.cc` (constant should be moved in a future version)
 * `crash.cc` (constant  should be moved in a future version)
 * (optional - if support Group Policy) `generate_group_policy_template.py` and `public_apps.py`
 * (optional - if builgin MSI wrappers and test apps) `*.wxs.xml` amd `*.xml`